The ASYNC Research Institute (A.R.I), or simply "ASYNC", is a corporation funded by the U.S. government. As its name implies, the A.R.I. is primarily responsible for researching the Backrooms and the phenomena within it. We believe the A.R.I.'s efforts toward occupation and research of the Backrooms are relative to a goal of utilising the Backrooms to solve issues surrounding overpopulation and supply storage.
While the A.R.I. is rich in resources, they are limited in numbers. For this reason, they resorted to recruiting from the survivor population of the Backrooms.

The Major Explorer Group (M.E.G.) is a quasi-governmental and de-facto power of the Backrooms. The M.E.G. tasks itself with providing social stability to the Backrooms and giving asylum and aid to those who need it. It also makes contributions to research and discovery within the Backrooms, being a major contender towards archiving knowledge.

The Satelles et Anesthetize (S.E.A) is an influential faction of cultist-like wanderers who adopted faith in the Sedated, primarily the Retainers and the hegemon, Lady Contradiction. They are heavily involved in research & archival matters as well as evangelisation of their religious ideals and beliefs across the Backrooms.
Members of the S.E.A receive special features such as an anomalous recall blessing which allows them to teleport back to their chapel on command.

The Federation (TF), priorly the Brutalizers (TB), is an enterprise-based faction centred around production, trade of goods & circulation of currency - essentially an aspiring economic powerhouse. They are neutral with all factions.
Branches
Civil Enforcement & Protection Agency (C.E.P.A)
The C.E.P.A is the primary combatant branch of the Federation, tasked with enforcing municipal jurisdiction and acting as security detail for Federation personnel, operations, territories and assets. Put simply, they enforce internal & territorial regulations while also protecting their own.
Their standard-issue gear includes CAR-15 and AK74U carbine rifles respective of rank.
Seers
The Seers are the Federation’s research branch. They are responsible for, as all research-related branches are, investigating and archiving Backrooms phenomena to figure out and log details.

The Syndicate are a large faction which is mostly based on working as mercenaries offering their services to anyone who is willing to pay the appropriate amount of money. Contractors can undertake any tasks, starting from headhunting, entity hunting, VIP guarding, area securing or whatever a person with money desires.
The Syndicate has a simple and clearly divided hierarchy system. Low Ranks contractors are the main force responsible for executing contracts, Middle Ranks are responsible for organizing all events and High Ranks are arranging contracts, paying contractors and enforcing regulations.
The Chief (First in Command)
Contract Captain (Second in Command)
Contractor Lieutenant
Contract Officer
Sergeant-At-Arms
Veteran Contractor
Senior Contractor
Contractor
Trainee Contractor

The Union of Free Press (T.U.F.P), also known simply as Union News (U.N), is an organised collective of photographers, writers and pressmen which work to push public news articles to keep people up-to-date on the status quo of the Backrooms and its many aspects.
They also utilise armed escorts as a means of combative intervention & security detail.
Organisation
Departments
Press
The Press is a non-combative branch which is responsible for the creation of the Union News newspapers. They report, gather information and act as war correspondents in times of conflict.
Respective internal branches & roles include:
Writer
Editor
Photographer
Reporter
Artist
Armed Escort
Armed Escorts are a combative branch primarily responsible for the protection of Press personnel. While not exactly designated for assault, they may be placed into combat in times of conflict.
Volunteers
The Volunteer rank is an undecided rank that newcomers receive before joining a department.

“The Protectorate Order is a Faction built on humanity's greatest achievement and final goal, Peace and Structure, shape us and we will shape you into something great. Fight back against Daemons as they cause disorder, chaos, which we do not stand for.”
This is a MELEE-FOCUSED faction
Divisions
Paladins:
''Forged from humanity's loss to protect those in need, pick-up the shield and bear the stress in order to protect the lost.''
Templars:
''Pick-up the Blade and a Suit of Steel, Fight for what you stand for, fight for what you are and who you care for the most.''
Clerics:
''Guide the Lost, aid them in their journey and aid your Faction in what you are the best at. Create Peace and Manage it when others Fail.''

The Backrooms Colonist Group (B.C.G) is a coalition of survivor settlements that unified to form a society. The group’s primary focus is colonization of the Backrooms to improve general living conditions. The colonist group currently has 2 camps that being one camp phoenix formerly the base of a faction known as EAG or expeditionary assault group and Camp genesis with is located somewhere in level 0. This faction was a former leading member of pact but left due to internal conflicts. 
Divisions
Colonist Rescue department CRD
A fire firefighter/fire rescue themed division that operates at the medics of the colonist group
The backrooms remodeling co TBRC
the primary division that build colonies and outpost
colonist assault group CAG
a division based on defending the colonies and primary combat div

The Federal Occult Management Authority is a joint venture between the United States Department of Defense and the Department of Energy. Since its inception in the early eighties, FOMA has been tasked with responding to, providing relief for, managing, and defending against occult or anomalous instances since the first publication of the anomalous.
Its current goals are survival, with the pursuit of returning home through force, diplomacy, or eradication. Aside from their current tragedy, their hopes are to establish an American presence on this unknown environment, to save their own citizens and service personnel, and hopefully, integrate new and willing patriots to the American cause.
This is a continuation of the "Federal Bureau of Biological Waste Disposal" official faction, which previously shut down.

“The Liminal Reclamation Authority (L.R.A) is an organization composed of various inhabitants of the Backrooms, all with the pure goal in mind in establishing safe zones within the liminal spaces and reclaiming the rightful territory of humanity. As such, these safe zones can vary, from settlements to entire levels, each monitored and regulated for the safety of humanity.”
Divisions
Metropolitan Force:
The Metropolitan Force is the backbone of the Liminal Reclamation Authority. It acts as a police force designed to regulate and ensure the L.R.A’s zones of interest are kept safe and stable.  As such, they enforce regulations, deal with crimes such as robberies, theft and assaults, and generally act as the first line of safety for the Residents of the level they reside within.
The Loyalist Union:
The Loyalist Union is the civil branch of the Liminal Reclamation Authority, being composed of two divisions in its entirety, being the Industrial Service and Innovation Bureau. As such, it operates differently without having non-divisional members.

The Partycrashers are an organised militant group formed by the former Repriser's Scouts, operating as a proxy faction. They are an offshoot created by the Partypoopers for PACT operations, embodying the Partypoopers' will to endure and adapt.
Partycrashers were created for more than just one reason; they were meant to help rebuild society by getting new Partypoopers. When a Partycrasher reaches the highest rank they can, they can opt to become a Partypooper, through secretive means.
Specialisations
Within Partycrashers, you can join a specialization upon the rank of Partycrasher, which you can decide through your time as a Buzzkill. There are Militant, Sustainer and Finder.
Fighting & Defense (Militant)
A specialisation led and directed by the Partypooper Striker. They are the main combative force of Partycrashers and are suited for combat.
Navigation & Research
A specialisation led and directed by Traveller and Analyst. Researchers and Navigators of the faction, expected to be the lifelines.
Scavenging & Humanitarian Aid
A specialisation led and directed by Gifter, Doctor, and Echo. Basic things for the faction, such as scavenging, medical aid and whatnot.

The Next Step is an irregular fighting force composed of former Outlanders and C-Group personnel who followed their respective leaders in acts of blind loyalty. It was formed by Christian Brody, Aleksei Yakhov and Jasmine Colt who act as the three heads of the faction, with Brody as the 1iC. The other two likely act as right hand men and high-command.
Operatives of the Next Step are formed in rankings, with Seekers being the standard, cannon-fodder fighting force most likely composed of indoctrinated survivors. There also specialised operatives, such as Marauders who are prior Outlanders and specialise in raiding and ambushing.
The general outfit of the Next Step consists of a dark-coloured shirt, cloak, pants and footwear. Each member is also issued the same variant of gas mask, with certain rankings having differently painted versions. Outfits may also have different accessories and colours based on ranking. Some are hooded while others have visible hair, or are just bald.
Tactics
The Next Step use irregular fighting tactics relevant to the concept of guerilla warfare. They tend to ambush people or groups from clandestine positions, usually in completely unlit areas, especially if near a lifeline or commonly used transportation route. Their dark clothing and lack of a nametag makes this possible.

The Partypoopers are a faction of anonymous human individuals adorned in black hoodies, black pants and blue masks with frowns that cover the whole face. Each member has an alias though keeps their legal name hidden, and each member also has unique, self-identifying features, mostly accessories, that usually relate to the role they play in the group.
Origins
The group was originally based in Level Fun, where they lived and conducted most of their operations. While we have a decent idea of which forced them to flee the level, it is not openly talked about at their personal requests.
It is known that the Partypoopers cooperated with Lord Wisdom and Lord Anesthetize in some form, likely as researchers. For whatever reason, the Lord Anesthetize “stabbed them in the back” and had the wanderers of Level Fun “turn their guns on them”, leading to some sort of massacre of their people which forced them to flee. We also believe that Jacks-In-The-Boxes and the rumoured Partygoers were involved in this, though we are not fully sure.
The scouts of the Partypoopers, who were named the “Partycrashers”, were killed in Level-0 through anonymous means.
Jumping
All members of the Partypoopers have mastered the art of “jumping”, a controlled form of noclipping which allows them to travel almost anywhere from anywhere. Information of this art is stored in a “Jump Journal”, which is being protected by one of their members.
It is known that the art of jumping utilises “connections”, structural points used to noclip via walls. Apparently Level-0 is rich with connections, though it takes a lot of training to learn the art regardless.
Level Fun
The group claimed that they were followed by Jacks-In-The-Boxes when they left Level Fun. While these entities are extinct in Level-0, having been killed off, they were said to be likely to escape from Level Fun if and when the door opens, or “especially if the wanderers figure out how to get out”.
Proxy
The Partypoopers have a semi-player/lore faction called the Partypooper scouts Now known as the party crashers. they serve a variety of tasks for the PP’s. They, along with the PP’s, reside in Level-37.

The Global M-State is a national entity from an alternate-reality scenario, which will be explained in its respective section below. It is a combination of Soviet and American forces (as seen on their respective uniforms and documents) who traverse the Backrooms with modern, if not futuristic, attire and equipment.
Current Situation
As of now, the M-Project is in splinters. Following the Mysteries of Deep Space 1/4 event (6th of October, 2024), their main facility was compromised which left communications cut off and several fragments of project personnel stranded across the Backrooms.
Ever since the 6th of October, M-Project personnel have been seen wandering alone and in groups. Many report in KIAs, mostly from high mimic activity targeting their vulnerable stragglers.
It is to be noted that the actions of one M-Project squad does not determine the stance of the M-Project or the Global M-State as a whole. A lot of past transgressions were the fault of the squad and not the entire organisation.
The M-Project
The “M-Project”, while we have little information on it, is believed to be a research project of the Global M-State related to the Backrooms. Project personnel, as refer to them as, were seen poking around the halls researching different levels, entities, etc. Phoenix has also spoken on the matter, but did not know anything of it.
We do know that the M-Project is headed by M-State POI “Hound”, also called “One-One”, who is the Explorations Executive.
Technology
The state had provided highly advanced technology to the personnel of their project. Their militants are all armed with the high-quality, standard-issue SCAR-H battle rifle. They also have high-grade ballistic armour of some sort giving them high resilience to damage.
Non-combative personnel, such as the researchers, have been seen utilising strange devices with pink content that allow them to cloak or teleport. We simply call these “M-State Devices”. The state has also bioengineered entities that they can deploy and control, namely the Rodent Annihilator series; you can read up on that in the entity database if necessary.
Some previous reports stated the use of signal jammers and portable, functional sources of pink light, though the integrity of this is not known. There were also reports stating that the Global M-State clears out “hundreds of thousands of kilometers of space” using anti-matter ordnance - this is apparently so that they can construct large warehouses or means of transportation such as railways or highways.
Also apparently, M-State is capable of teleporting other people to designated destinations at will. Unsure if this is true or not.
Organisation
Not fully understood, expect missing information and discrepancies.
Central Command (CENCOM)
Central Command, shortened to CENCOM, is believed to consist of POI One-One, “Hound” and POI “One-Two”, and perhaps others. These are believed to be the first and second in command of the M-Project respectively.
Platoons
Platoons are larger military units commanded by a Platoon Commander. They are identified by number (Platoon 1, Platoon 2, etc). Inside these Platoons are Squads.
Squads
Squads are smaller units which are parts of Platoons, the larger body. Each Squad is known to include a Squad Leader and a Researcher (see POI database), as well as a number of regular operatives.
Identification
Members of the M-Project are labeled by number. This number is believed to be based off their squad number and their operative number. Therefore, the ninth member of the tenth squad would be named 10-9. Squad 10-Operative 9.

The Ministry of Science is a researching organization that are from the same reality and timeline of the Global M-State. However, they do not work under the M-State and are a completely separate faction. They are seen to have black attires and same equipment from the Global M-State, such as arc-devices.

The Wayfinders are a group of interest formed from the convergence of old survivors and the remnants of the three families, the Voguls, the Vindictas, and the Reliquiaes. The emergence of this group was initially discovered on July 29th, 1990 (2025).
Territory
Wayfinder territory is organized into five distinct colonies. At the center lies the “Palace” which serves as their main focal point. Extending out in cardinal directions from the Palace are the four other colonies. To the east is the “Stronghold”, the youngest established colony of the five. North of the palace is the “Eagle's Nest” earning the name for its high levels of observation on Hive activity. To the south of the palace is “The Stockpile,” a colony dedicated to acquisition and the amassment of materials or resources for long-term storage. Lastly, to the west of the palace are the “Western Ruins,” it's status as a colony is strongly debated due to it's scattered and fragmented presence of Wayfinders which have yet to form a major colony like the rest. The ruins are widely regarded within the Wayfinders as the place of origin for many strange phenomenas and behavior.
Structure
The Wayfinders are led by the high council which is comprised of a total of three members, one for each of the families. The High-council (leadership) oversees all macro-level decisions, supported by a member of the Advisory Council. Members of the high-council consult with an advisor. Advisors are not bound exclusively to a single member of the high-council. Below the Advisory council are the warchiefs, every colony is run by their own set of warchiefs for each branch. They have four different branches, there is one warchief per branch.
Branches
The “Vultures” function as the Wayfinders scavenging and trading branch. Vultures are responsible for resource gathering and distribution, facilitating exchange with independent people all the way to a wide range of major and minor factions. At the stronghold colony the Vultures are led by Warchief Braven.
“Mechanists” are the main-force of builders and constructors. They salvage resources and are adept at creating fortified outposts and other infrastructure for the wayfinders. At the stronghold colony the Mechanists are led by Warchief Damian Ryker.
“Old guards” serve as the Wayfinders central militia. They are responsible for the defense of the colonies and protection of Wayfinder leadership. At the stronghold colony, the Old guards were previously under the command of Warchief Daan Takovich who is now marked KIA. Currently, the Warchief of the Old Guards at the Stronghold is “YellowBird”
The “Analysts” are the foundational primary body for research within the Wayfinders. They’re responsible for observation, documentation, and handle questionnaire’s in hopes to understand backrooms phenomena. At the stronghold colony, the Analysts are led by Warchief Lucas.

The Blue Federation is a self-sufficient organized group of facelings which previously resided within Level-49. After the collapse of their home level, they set off to regroup their people, live off the land independently. These individuals operate through a network of fortified encampments and outposts. This includes a primary homebase in some section of the farlands.
Details
The Blue Federation remains as a semi government/remnant.
The Blue Federation has since discarded the “Triumvirate” leadership model and has simply appointed the General in charge.
The Blue Federation’s radio station is labeled as the “Bluebird Station”
The Detachments
Doorkickers Detachment of the 1st Urban regiment
Responsible for peacekeeping within Level-9, works alongside the Infmart.
Mudskippers Detachment
Part of something called PACT which stands for Pools Autonomous Coalition Territory. They have their own encampment called Camp Heron in the poolrooms on the bottom floor in vicinity to the larger encampment on the third story. In summary, it grants them more jurisdiction over poolrooms, this detachment also lives in the wooden area/tent encampments on the third floor of poolrooms.

“The Cinema” is a faction organized and controlled by the Protophytan entity family, primarily The Filmmaker. These entities are all robotic in form and their origin is still rather disputed, however there are 5 ranks in this group. In order from top to bottom corresponding to high to low:
Filmmaker (Singular Entity)
Receptionist (Singular Entity)
Engineers
Workers
The Inspector (Singular Entity)
The cinema is a group which provides services to sentient entities/humans, most commonly theatre shows. However they also supply The Hive with their TV Entities, and they pay The Syndicate in exchange for protection of The Cinema.
Other Information
Origins of this group and entity family are disputed. The main theories regarding the creation of workers and engineers are: They are mutated humans, or: robotic creations.
Notes
The Protophytans live in Level-558, accessible from the Filmmaker.

The infmart or the infinity mart is the name given to the faction of faclings that live in level 9. Most of these facling entities are civilians either just living or working in level 9, The manager is the leader of this group

The Yellow Warriors are a hostile and cult-like group of Crab followers. The distinct appearances of their members reflect their abnormal beliefs, with their adamant use of tribal patterns and spiritual icons in uniform.
Members of the Yellow Warriors, typically the lower-ranking ones, are radicalised and clinically insane with symptoms of mania, sociopathy and pyschopathy. They can be seen spewing non-sensical, immature or just outright crazed rhetoric - they also just laugh a lot, for no real reason, and are always shouting.
Members of the Yellow Warriors increase in arsenal, endurance and authority as they ascend the ranks (see M.E.G POI Database for YW ranks). Most members of the Yellow Warriors will be equipped with an excessive amount of throwables, any variety of ranged or melee weaponry and boosted HP (armour). Some also have boosted speed and stamina.
In combat, Yellow Warriors tend to have a lack of self-preservation. This is shown in their tendency to recklessly throw grenades and expose themselves to gunfire in an attempt to intimidate and push the enemy.
As last resorts in combat, they have been seen to perform acts of suicide-bombing in which they sprint towards the enemy and spam their grenade stock, or explode a rigged explosive on their body if captured.
Past
The Yellow Warriors were the Wild Warriors division of the Western Major Explorer Group. They were the ones who initiated the civil war through rebelling against authority and initiating hostilities under the order of a TV Crab - this resulted in the toppling of W-M.E.G leadership, leading to anarchy.
Organisation
It is known that the Yellow Warriors have outposts and FOBs set up across levels. The only known FOB as of now is the one located in Level-1.1, which is often used to organise assaults on Ganzir and Level-1. They also have a check point set up in level 21 or inoutia
Not much else is known.

The Orange Warriors are a group of Yellow Warriors who decided to defect after “learning the truth” about the crab. Originally consisting of 14 members, over half of them have died due to accidents of trains or being murdered by Yellow Warriors or their Loyalists.

Squad Hound is a small and autonomous group of operatives who were a part of the wider 18th Pointward division of W-MEG. They prioritise their survival above most other things, but oftentimes work in conjunction with the 95th (our MEG), our allies and other non-hostile splinters.
Squad Hound appears to be headed by POIs Canine and Houndwolf, Second and Third Consuls of the Council (as they referred to themselves as).
Other Information
Squad Hound appears to be in a state of conflict with the Global M-State, having stated that they have attacked their outposts and such.

The Fortress Constructors are one of the many remnant groups of the might Western Major Explorer Group. This Group of Interest is entirely composed of what we call “Constructors”, which are the equivalent of members of the Blueprint Junction division within our Major Explorer Group. This is due to them being former members of the construction division within the Western Major Explorer Group.
The Fortress Constructors are composed of a “1st In-Command”, also known as “FC-X” and a “2nd In-Command”, which have their very own unique uniforms.
Situation
It has been acknowledged that members of the Fortress Constructors were conscripted against their will to operate alongside the Yellow Warriors, and face heavy consequences for insubordination.
As such, it is our duty to apprehend members of the Fortress Constructors where possible and bring them to Ganzir to seek asylum. They are not be killed unless absolutely necessary.
Other Information
The Fortress Constructors are clearly not interested in unifying, as they work for the Yellow Warriors and are allies of the Wild Warriors, otherwise known as the “Away Insurgency” as we call it.
Their division number is 31, (Ex. “31st fortress constructor division”)

The 58th Frontiersmen, formerly known simply as the 58th Splinter, is a reformist splinter-faction of the Western Major Explorer Group. They are the 58th research detachment of Western M.E.G’s Trial Testers.
Details regarding the 58th
The 58th reside within the First City landmark of Level-0 beyond the Northern Infinitelands entrance. Their job was to establish a colony separate from the capital city of the Western Major Explorer group. 58th additionally gained benefit from their connections with Level-10.
The Archives, a bunker underneath the city at the same layer of 0.5, is speculated to contain complete information of the W-M.E.G and its history, alongside the splinter’s Command. The Western major explorer group’s Consul was the individual who personally proposed that the Archives be built at the First City. The construction of the First City and the Archives was fulfilled just months prior to Western MEG falling apart.
The splinter pursues the reunification of the M.E.G, of which they see us with a chance of achieving such a goal. They are more isolationist than most factions, opting to keep a low profile from others.
Structure
58th splinter cell was originally not comprised of three divisions. Initially, there was two detachments whom operated around the First city. When the wars started, they got pulled back, and the rest fled into the Archives. After, it brought them to divide their personnel into a more centralized body which founded the Militants and the Scouts.
The three divisions of the 58th are the Scouts, the Militants and the Researchers. They also have the Militia, which is an irregular fighting force of survivors and facelings who reside in the First City who take up arms to defend their home.
The 58th Command is comprised of these individuals :
The Archivist, who had been assigned the role of the First-in-Command of the 58th splinter cell. Comparing to our MEG’s ranks, the Archivist had equivalent authority of an adjutant in Western-MEG’s Trial Testers.
Dr. Waite, assigned the ranking of Second-in-Command of the 58th splinter cell, though he no longer holds that positions as it was removed. Comparing to our MEG’s ranks, Dr. Waite had equivalent authority of a Navigator in Western-MEG’s Trial Testers.
As for Tyrone and Tanaka, they both held equivalent authority of Trailblazers.
These individuals are responsible for directing the 58th and its survival.
Other Information
Additionally, the authority applying to the main body of Western MEG’s Trial Testers, ranking equivalent of a Commissar is an individual who goes by the name “Blake”.

The Deciples, also known as the 98th Detachment was established sometime in the year 1987 and first sighted by the M.E.G on June 22nd, 1989 (2024) and formally integrated into the Major Explorer group on June 24th, 1989 (2024), originally operating under the Western Major Explorer group's Quick match archetype. The Deciples have approximately 74 remaining members and is currently led by James Moore with his sister Eliza Moore, also known as the second in-command to the detachment.
Origins, Past life & Personal Details
Before the backrooms, the Deciples existed in the US Military as a Special Operations Detachment called “Vantage”. The official name was “Anomaly Neutralization Team” (ANT), with the full name being (VANT), short for “Varied Anomaly Neutralization Team”. During their founding the US couldn't think of whether to call them "Anomaly extermination group" instead so the abbreviations were combined to create the name “Vantage” (VNTG). Vantage was numbered up to an estimate of 300-400 personnel and they specialized in reconnaissance related operations. Vantage stationed in a massive FOB near an unstable zone suffering significant losses as squads sent out to investigate the area repeatedly went MIA. Before they could withdraw, the entire detachment along with some assets including a tank, APC's, and some humvees were all transported into the Backrooms from a massive noclip event. Following the event, the detachment came across Western MEG and shortly after both sides took up on the opportunity resulting in the unit formally being incorporated into the structure of W-MEG as the Deciples (98th detachment) stationed just a few quadrants away from the Bastion. Unlike most residents that have fallen into the Backrooms, the deciples originate from the year 2020.

The Nightkin is an underground faction that lurk in the darkness of levels, opting for pitch-black environments such as levels 6 and 8, or the darkness of Level-1. They hardly ever appear in lit spaces, in which they will usually only appear for a short period of time.
Members of the Nightkin utilise a special type of armour composed of Gerran Steel from Level-509. This gear allows them to fully cloak themselves to the naked eye, as well as making them more agile and giving them a clear state of mind.
They seem to be a background faction that lingers off to the side and observes, taking whatever information it can and utilising it to their advantage. Direct confrontation has not been seen from the Nightkin.
It is to be noted that the Nightkin were formerly members of the Lock Breakers of the W-M.E.G, presumably responsible for finding ways to access levels.
M-State Cooperation
The Nightkin are now in full cooperation with the Global M-State and have basically dissolved into them to work under them. They will remain their own GOI until further notice, but this explains their lack of appearances.
As of November 13th, 2025 (1990), The Nightkin is no longer working with the Global M-State nor with the Ministry of Science. They’ve been declared AWOL and are no longer part of TMoS. We’ve no information of their current status.
(Please report any instances or encounters of Nightkin personnel to Trial Tester Command.)
